Nature and human life are as various as our several constitutions.
Nature is as well adapted to our weakness as to our strength.
To anticipate, not the sunrise and the dawn merely, but, if possible, Nature herself!
A comfortable house for a rude and hardy race, that lived mostly out of doors, was once made here almost entirely of such materials as Nature furnished ready to their hands.
If, then, we would indeed restore mankind by truly Indian, botanic, magnetic, or natural means, let us first be as simple and well as Nature ourselves, dispel the clouds which hang over our own brows, and take up a little life into our pores.
Every morning was a cheerful invitation to make my life of equal simplicity, and I may say innocence, with Nature herself.
Let us spend one day as deliberately as Nature, and not be thrown off the track by every nutshell and mosquito's wing that falls on the rails.
We might as well omit to study Nature because she is old.
I tasted them out of compliment to Nature, though they were scarcely palatable.
If the cloud that hangs over the engine were the perspiration of heroic deeds, or as beneficent as that which floats over the farmer's fields, then the elements and Nature herself would cheerfully accompany men on their errands and be their escort.
I do not mean to be satirical, but to express my appreciation of those youths' singing, when I state that I perceived clearly that it was akin to the music of the cow, and they were at length one articulation of Nature.
Near at hand you could fancy it the most melancholy sound in Nature, as if she meant by this to stereotype and make permanent in her choir the dying moans of a human being&mdash;some poor weak relic of mortality who has left hope behind, and howls like an animal, yet with human sobs, on entering the dark valley, made more awful by a certain gurgling melodiousness&mdash;I find myself beginning with the letters <i>gl</i> when I try to imitate it; expressive of a mind which has reached the gelatinous, mildewy stage in the mortification of all healthy and courageous thought.
All day the sun has shone on the surface of some savage swamp, where the single spruce stands hung with usnea lichens, and small hawks circulate above, and the chickadee lisps amid the evergreens, and the partridge and rabbit skulk beneath; but now a more dismal and fitting day dawns, and a different race of creatures awakes to express the meaning of Nature there.
I go and come with a strange liberty in Nature, a part of herself.
They are Nature's watchmen&mdash;links which connect the days of animated life.
The thick wood is not just at our door, nor the pond, but somewhat is always clearing, familiar and worn by us, appropriated and fenced in some way, and reclaimed from Nature.
There can be no very black melancholy to him who lives in the midst of Nature and has his senses still.
In the midst of a gentle rain while these thoughts prevailed, I was suddenly sensible of such sweet and beneficent society in Nature, in the very pattering of the drops, and in every sound and sight around my house, an infinite and unaccountable friendliness all at once like an atmosphere sustaining me, as made the fancied advantages of human neighborhood insignificant, and I have never thought of them since.
We are not wholly involved in Nature.
The indescribable innocence and beneficence of Nature&mdash;of sun and wind and rain, of summer and winter&mdash;such health, such cheer, they afford forever!
and such sympathy have they ever with our race, that all Nature would be affected, and the sun's brightness fade, and the winds would sigh humanely, and the clouds rain tears, and the woods shed their leaves and put on mourning in midsummer, if any man should ever for a just cause grieve.
Not my or thy great-grandfather's, but our great-grandmother Nature's universal, vegetable, botanic medicines, by which she has kept herself young always, outlived so many old Parrs in her day, and fed her health with their decaying fatness.
When Nature made him, she gave him a strong body and contentment for his portion, and propped him on every side with reverence and reliance, that he might live out his threescore years and ten a child.
Bread may not always nourish us; but it always does us good, it even takes stiffness out of our joints, and makes us supple and buoyant, when we knew not what ailed us, to recognize any generosity in man or Nature, to share any unmixed and heroic joy.
He knows Nature but as a robber.
It was very queer, especially in dark nights, when your thoughts had wandered to vast and cosmogonal themes in other spheres, to feel this faint jerk, which came to interrupt your dreams and link you to Nature again.
There Nature has woven a natural selvage, and the eye rises by just gradations from the low shrubs of the shore to the highest trees.
It is a mirror which no stone can crack, whose quicksilver will never wear off, whose gilding Nature continually repairs; no storms, no dust, can dim its surface ever fresh;&mdash;a mirror in which all impurity presented to it sinks, swept and dusted by the sun's hazy brush&mdash;this the light dust-cloth&mdash;which retains no breath that is breathed on it, but sends its own to float as clouds high above its surface, and be reflected in its bosom still.
Nature has no human inhabitant who appreciates her.
The birds with their plumage and their notes are in harmony with the flowers, but what youth or maiden conspires with the wild luxuriant beauty of Nature?
Perhaps I have owed to this employment and to hunting, when quite young, my closest acquaintance with Nature.
Fishermen, hunters, woodchoppers, and others, spending their lives in the fields and woods, in a peculiar sense a part of Nature themselves, are often in a more favorable mood for observing her, in the intervals of their pursuits, than philosophers or poets even, who approach her with expectation.
Nature is hard to be overcome, but she must be overcome.
There, too, I admired, though I did not gather, the cranberries, small waxen gems, pendants of the meadow grass, pearly and red, which the farmer plucks with an ugly rake, leaving the smooth meadow in a snarl, heedlessly measuring them by the bushel and the dollar only, and sells the spoils of the meads to Boston and New York; destined to be <i>jammed</i>, to satisfy the tastes of lovers of Nature there.
This tuber seemed like a faint promise of Nature to rear her own children and feed them simply here at some future period.
In these days of fatted cattle and waving grain-fields this humble root, which was once the <i>totem</i> of an Indian tribe, is quite forgotten, or known only by its flowering vine; but let wild Nature reign here once more, and the tender and luxurious English grains will probably disappear before a myriad of foes, and without the care of man the crow may carry back even the last seed of corn to the great cornfield of the Indian's God in the southwest, whence he is said to have brought it; but the now almost exterminated ground-nut will perhaps revive and flourish in spite of frosts and wildness, prove itself indigenous, and resume its ancient importance and dignity as the diet of the hunter tribe.
As if only the savage dwelt near enough to Nature and Truth to borrow a trope from them.
Again, perhaps, Nature will try, with me for a first settler, and my house raised last spring to be the oldest in the hamlet.
I do not see how he can ever die; Nature cannot spare him.
It is Nature's own bird which lives on buds and diet drink.
It looked as if Nature no longer contained the breed of nobler bloods, but stood on her last toes.
I took a step, and lo, away it scud with an elastic spring over the snow-crust, straightening its body and its limbs into graceful length, and soon put the forest between me and itself&mdash;the wild free venison, asserting its vigor and the dignity of Nature.
They are among the most simple and indigenous animal products; ancient and venerable families known to antiquity as to modern times; of the very hue and substance of Nature, nearest allied to leaves and to the ground&mdash;and to one another; it is either winged or it is legged.
But there was dawning Nature, in whom all creatures live, looking in at my broad windows with serene and satisfied face, and no question on <i>her</i> lips.
I awoke to an answered question, to Nature and daylight.
Nature puts no question and answers none which we mortals ask.
The amount of it is, the imagination give it the least license, dives deeper and soars higher than Nature goes.
If we knew all the laws of Nature, we should need only one fact, or the description of one actual phenomenon, to infer all the particular results at that point.
Now we know only a few laws, and our result is vitiated, not, of course, by any confusion or irregularity in Nature, but by our ignorance of essential elements in the calculation.
One old man, who has been a close observer of Nature, and seems as thoroughly wise in regard to all her operations as if she had been put upon the stocks when he was a boy, and he had helped to lay her keel&mdash;who has come to his growth, and can hardly acquire more of natural lore if he should live to the age of Methuselah&mdash;told me&mdash;and I was surprised to hear him express wonder at any of Nature's operations, for I thought that there were no secrets between them&mdash;that one spring day he took his gun and boat, and thought that he would have a little sport with the ducks.
Thus it seemed that this one hillside illustrated the principle of all the operations of Nature.
True, it is somewhat excrementitious in its character, and there is no end to the heaps of liver, lights, and bowels, as if the globe were turned wrong side outward; but this suggests at least that Nature has some bowels, and there again is mother of humanity.
These foliaceous heaps lie along the bank like the slag of a furnace, showing that Nature is "in full blast" within.
When the ground was partially bare of snow, and a few warm days had dried its surface somewhat, it was pleasant to compare the first tender signs of the infant year just peeping forth with the stately beauty of the withered vegetation which had withstood the winter&mdash;life-everlasting, goldenrods, pinweeds, and graceful wild grasses, more obvious and interesting frequently than in summer even, as if their beauty was not ripe till then; even cotton-grass, cat-tails, mulleins, johnswort, hard-hack, meadow-sweet, and other strong-stemmed plants, those unexhausted granaries which entertain the earliest birds&mdash;decent weeds, at least, which widowed Nature wears.
There was a dead horse in the hollow by the path to my house, which compelled me sometimes to go out of my way, especially in the night when the air was heavy, but the assurance it gave me of the strong appetite and inviolable health of Nature was my compensation for this.
I love to see that Nature is so rife with life that myriads can be afforded to be sacrificed and suffered to prey on one another; that tender organizations can be so serenely squashed out of existence like pulp&mdash;tadpoles which herons gobble up, and tortoises and toads run over in the road; and that sometimes it has rained flesh and blood!
As if Nature could support but one order of understandings, could not sustain birds as well as quadrupeds, flying as well as creeping things, and <i>hush</i> and <i>whoa</i>, which Bright can understand, were the best English.
